---
title: Typescript and p5.js
date: 2024-11-10
published: no
tags:
  - typescript
  - javascript
  - processing
---

Lately I have been messing around with p5.js, it's been a lot of fun. I really
enjoy being able to drop in the p5 library with a script tag and then write
plain javascript and get all the instant feedback of seeing my code run.

However, I missed having my editor help me out with typing and the available
functions on the p5 instance and so I started thinking about how can I get
typescript into this project without needing a build step.

This seemed like a perfect opportunity to try out using typescript alongside
jsdoc to get typing help without needing to run tsc to actually get javascript.

So here are the steps I had to do to get this working:

First install typescript and @types/p5 and p5 into your project. In the spirit
of keeping things simple I used `npm` to do this and had a small package.json
that included just those items.

Once that is complete you can run tsc init:

```
npx tsc --init
```

And it will generate a tsconfig.json for you.

For my use case I wanted each javscript file to be its own self-contained
sketch. And to make that work I had to set

`"moduleDetection": "force"`

This makes it so if you have sketch1.js and sketch2.js and both have
`class Mover`, then typescript will not complain about having a duplicate class
with the same name, it will see each of the files as their own module.

I then needed to make some changes to my `p5` sketches. The first thing to do is
to use instance mode:
https://github.com/processing/p5.js/wiki/Global-and-instance-mode

I feel like it is possible to use global p5 mode and still use typescript but
this seemed more straightforward to me and did not seem like a huge hassle.

Next, I added a `globals.d.ts` to tell typescript that p5 is globally available:

```
export {};

declare global {
  var p5: typeof import("p5");
}
```

And finally add jsdoc annotations to your sketch file. You'll likely need to
start your file with some type imports:

```

/**
 * Import p5 so we can type p5 instance when we pass to a function
 * @typedef {import("p5")} p5
 *
 * Import any type we pass as a parameter
 * In this example we create a few p5.Vector instances and pass them
 * to a constructor
 * @typedef {import("p5").Vector} Vector
 */
```

And with that your should be good to go. You can see a full working example
here!
