---
title: What even
date: 2024-11-19
published: no
tags:
  - life
---

Recently I listend to the
[latest Developer Voices podcast on microservices](https://pod.link/developer-voices/episode/62e125cb3109238efbff36b3eb50d3e8).
It does not come with a ton of practical advice but I think it spoke a lot about
how going with a microservices architecture is more than just about how code is
organized but also about how the company delivers value to the customer. They
spent a long time talking about how this decisions is also a social choice not
just a technical choice.

To me the speaks to how important it is to make those larger architectural
decisions based on what your company needs. You no longer think just about how
you'll write and support your code but you also consider how engineering fits
into the company as a whole. My past experiences have leaned towards choosing
microservices as an escape from systems that were difficult to develop on. That
can be freeing, but usually you're trading known problems for new undiscovered
problems (at least to your organization). I have also seen where microservices
work great initially but as the number of services increase you start running
into scaling issues your company did not plan for.

Almost universally, what developers want out of a microservices architecture is
focus. If you have your own service you only have to worry about its code base
and not all the legacy cruft your original monolith has. Possibly you don't even
need to worry about learning an outdated language or library, you can finally
focus on doing things the right way. This is really great, it feels so good!

I have seen though where it only ends up being a temporary escape. If your
previous system suffered from poor design and outdated tech choices and you
spend your time writing a new microservice with the latest popular code and
don't give time to system design (why bother, it's a microservice it's too small
for that!) - you end up back where you started but with the additional cost of
microservices.

---

When you see a lot of people trying the same approach to a problem and not
having a lot of success, it's your sign to try things differently. This can be a
huge challenge, you have to get creative and be thoughtful and then be willing
to put yourself out there in way that, by design, other people are not doing.

It's comforting to follow the beaten path, but then you need everything to go
exactly to plan and when things don't go to the accepted plan you're in trouble.
Maybe it's better to make your own path from the start, less comfortable but
perhaps more resilient.

---

The one thing I am sure of that we will need more of going forward is critical
thinking. No matter what technologies are trends show up in the future, a
disconnected brain will not carry you far, it's better to always be thinking.

---

How many words do you need to write before you feel like you have something that
can be shared? I have half ideas that sort of fizzle and I can hear myself
getting less sure of where I'm going with the idea.
