---
title: Habits
date: 2022-04-09
tags:
  - life
  - resolutions
---

# 12 Habits

For 2022 I decided one of the things I wanted to do was try out a new habit
each month for the entire month. I didn't make a specific list of habits to try, instead choosing to pick one a few days before the start of a new month. This is the results.

# 1 January

I wanted to start easy, so for this it was simply to have and
stick with a nightime routine. Stretch, brush teeth, (and one
other things..)



# 2 February 

For February I tried to do a daily "super" half-hour. This meant doing 3 things for 10 minutes each that are always on my to do list: Practice guitar, write, and draw.

It went alright, but was definitely challenging to get it done
when I put it off and it got too close to bed time. A lot of times
compeleting it all in 30 minutes was tough because I would get
started and not want to be finished in 10 minutes.

I try to remember even 10 minutes a day is enough to keep in
practice, and depending on level get better. Also, writing a page
in a notebook is a really nice way to get thoughts flowing and
kind of set my mind up for focusing, I hope to keep writing, daily
if possible, but generally just more.

# 3 March

I decided after seeing how little I get accomplished at the end of
the day that I would try to get up earlier, so for March my goal
was to wake up with the sun. This also had a nice effect of
negating the spring day lights saving change. This was a really
tough habit. So much of this depends on getting to bed earlier and
despite everything up to now re-enforcing that idea I really have
a hard time just hopping into bed at an appropriate time. But I
still tried hard to stick with it and I found that waking up the
with the sun at this time of year is a really pleasant way to
slowly wake up earlier.

My approach was to wake up 10 minutes earlier each week, the first
week I made the large adjustment getting up at 6:40am (compared to
7:30-8:30 before). 

This is something I'm continuing forward. My hope is to have more
energy and focus time in the morning before I start work, and
perhaps evenings will be more open and allow me to get to bed on
time while aiming for 8.5hrs of sleep.

# 4 April

After March's tough habit I decided on doing something different
for April. While I am continuing to wake up earlier and will be
trying to stay with that habit, my April habit is simply to read
at least on poem each day. My hope is this will sort of combine
with my writing habit from February while also getting in some
new perspectives, voices, ideas that I generally am less exposed
to in a normal working day.

# 5 May

Still thinking on what will be May, probably something a bit more
challenging...

